docs/ember-to-react/lifecycle.mdx, before:

# Lifecycle Methods

Lifecycle methods run at different points of time for rendering components. In Ember, modifiers are often used in Glimmer ([doc](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-render-modifiers)). In React, `useEffect` and other hooks are used to handle state and run side effects ([doc](https://react.dev/learn/synchronizing-with-effects)).

## Ember 

```hbs title="template.hbs"
<div {{did-insert this.initComponent}}>
  {{this.loadingState}}
</div>
```

```js title="component.js" showLineNumbers
import { tracked } from '@glimmer/tracking';
import Component from '@glimmer/component';
import { action } from '@ember/object';

export default class LoadingIndicator extends Component {
  // loading is the initial state
  @tracked loadingState = 'Loading...';

  // action is needed to respond to the didInsert modifier
  @action
  initComponent() {
    // can add a delay just to see it happen: 
    setTimeout(() => {
      this.loadingState = 'Component initialized';
    }, 2000); // 2 seconds
  }
}
```

## React 

```jsx title="component.js" live
// automatically included but you'll have to import them to use them
// import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';

function LoadingIndicator() {
	// loading is the initial state
  const [loadingState, setLoadingState] = useState('Loading...');

	function initComponent() {
    setTimeout(() => {
      setLoadingState('Component initialized');
    }, 2000); // 2 seconds
  }


  // only after first render
  // don't want to keep on initializing so empty array
  useEffect(() => {
    initComponent();
  }, []);


  return <div>{loadingState}</div>;
}
```

## Further notes

- Larger explanation on Ember lifecycle https://guides.emberjs.com/v3.3.0/getting-started/core-concepts/
- Ember Component lifecycle https://guides.emberjs.com/v3.4.0/components/the-component-lifecycle/
- Visual difference in Ember for lifecycle with Glimmer and before https://github.com/yankeeinlondon/ember-lifecycle-hooks
- Explanation of Ember.js overall https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2013/11/an-in-depth-introduction-to-ember-js/
- Explanation of React hooks https://github.com/Wavez/react-hooks-lifecycle
- Other React lifecycle hooks https://react.dev/reference/react/hooks

Commit message:

docs: add explanations for Ember and React lifecycle differences

docs/ember-to-react/lifecycle.mdx, after:

# Lifecycle Methods

Lifecycle methods run at different points of time for rendering components. In Ember, modifiers are often used in Glimmer ([doc](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-render-modifiers)). In React, `useEffect` and other hooks are used to handle state and run side effects ([doc](https://react.dev/learn/synchronizing-with-effects)).

## Ember 

In Ember, we use the `{{did-insert}}` modifier to run code when the component is first inserted into the DOM. 

The `@tracked` decorator makes the property reactive, and the `@action` decorator is required for methods that will be called from templates or modifiers.

```hbs title="template.hbs"
<div {{did-insert this.initComponent}}>
  {{this.loadingState}}
</div>
```

```js title="component.js" showLineNumbers
import { tracked } from '@glimmer/tracking';
import Component from '@glimmer/component';
import { action } from '@ember/object';

export default class LoadingIndicator extends Component {
  // loading is the initial state
  @tracked loadingState = 'Loading...';

  // action is needed to respond to the didInsert modifier
  @action
  initComponent() {
    // can add a delay just to see it happen: 
    setTimeout(() => {
      this.loadingState = 'Component initialized';
    }, 2000); // 2 seconds
  }
}
```

## React 

In React, we use `useState` to manage component state and `useEffect` to handle side effects. The empty dependency array `[]` ensures the effect only runs once after the initial render, equivalent to Ember's `{{did-insert}}`.

The key differences:
- `useState` replaces `@tracked` properties for reactive state
- `useEffect` with empty dependencies `[]` replaces `{{did-insert}}` modifier
- No need for `@action` decorator - regular functions work fine
- State updates use setter functions (`setLoadingState`) instead of direct assignment

```jsx title="component.js" live
// automatically included but you'll have to import them to use them
// import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';

function LoadingIndicator() {
	// loading is the initial state
  const [loadingState, setLoadingState] = useState('Loading...');

	function initComponent() {
    setTimeout(() => {
      setLoadingState('Component initialized');
    }, 2000); // 2 seconds
  }


  // only after first render
  // don't want to keep on initializing so empty array
  useEffect(() => {
    initComponent();
  }, []);


  return <div>{loadingState}</div>;
}
```

## Further notes

- Larger explanation on Ember lifecycle https://guides.emberjs.com/v3.3.0/getting-started/core-concepts/
- Ember Component lifecycle https://guides.emberjs.com/v3.4.0/components/the-component-lifecycle/
- Visual difference in Ember for lifecycle with Glimmer and before https://github.com/yankeeinlondon/ember-lifecycle-hooks
- Explanation of Ember.js overall https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2013/11/an-in-depth-introduction-to-ember-js/
- Explanation of React hooks https://github.com/Wavez/react-hooks-lifecycle
- Other React lifecycle hooks https://react.dev/reference/react/hooks
